# Disseration



# EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

In the modern world, artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies are playing a vital role in every industry. Experts believe the healthcare sector has immense potential for innovation and cost-effectiveness, particularly when it comes to resource management and digitalization. Healthcare ranks the most concerning businesses when it comes to the collection and processing of data. It evolved because of the application of numerous data mining tools and machine learning algorithms for recognising noteworthy patterns, establishing correlations and interactions among many variables, and analysing vast databases. It is a crucial tool in the medical field for delivering and contrasting current facts to choose the best course of action. This technology enables the exploration of enormous amounts of data by fusing several analytic approaches with contemporary and sophisticated algorithms. It is employed in the medical field to compile, arrange, and methodically analyse patient data. To discover insights for efficient decision-making, the vast, dense, and complicated data must be processed and assessed. Finding hidden patterns in medical databases is very possible with the help of medical data mining. Massive amounts of data from numerous sources are being generated regularly and often in the healthcare industry, which makes them challenging to process and integrate. Patient data generated by the medical sector is produced in enormous quantities and is processed in numerous ways. Using those huge data, we can make a disease predictive model using machine learning, we were able to develop a predictive model that can identify multiple diseases simultaneously. 

People in the present epidemic prefer to receive their medical care at home and to stay as far away from polluted locations as they can, such as clinics and hospitals. Our project main goal of this project is to provide health care services in the digital form where an individual can check his health risk status to any of the availed diseases easily from a web application by passing few parameters. I have chosen six crucial linear models (Logistic Regression, Decision tree, KNN, Random Forest Classifier and Support Vector Machine) which help to predict diseases using online web portal and at the same time used two deep learning CNN models are implemented as a part of the project to examine how well they perform on datasets related to six type of diseases. In addition to being compared, each technique has been included into a prediction engine and made available via a web application using stream lit. 

Most of the systems currently in use can only predict one disease at a time & also with poor accuracy. Lower accuracy can pose a major threat to a patient's health. The user must enter numerous system and illness parameters. Would show the results whether the person has the condition or not. Many people can benefit from this idea because one can monitor the person's health and take the required safety measures therefore improving the life expectancy. Although there are numerous opportunities provided by digital technologies to enhance people’s experiences with services and their health, maximizing these benefits will require careful planning and implementation. The use of technology to assist people in keeping track of and managing their own health and well-being is one aspect of this.
